[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: Now let's see if we can take
object observe, we did it with from event.
Can we take this new fangled
ES7 feature object observe and
turn it into an observable?
I bet we can.
So instead of in addition to from event,
what if we say observable.observations,
right?
Because it's plural.
Now, instead of thinking of events as this
add event listener, remove event listener.
Now we're thinking about events
in terms of collections, right?
It's just another collection.
It's the stream of observations
we get from an object.
So what's it going to accept?
Well, it's going to accept
the JavaScript object.
And what does it return?
Yell it out.
What will this return,
when you call
object.observations on an object?
What kinda type?
>> Speaker 2: Observable.
>> Jafar: An observable.
It's the same answer every time so far.
Return a new observable and
when you forEach over this observable,
what do we want to have happen?
What's the side effect that occurs?
What's the thing that happens to cause
us to start getting events pushed at us?
What API are we going to call?
This new ES7 API.
>> Speaker 2: Object.observe.
>> Jafar: Object.observe!
So we call object.observe.
So we're going to create a handler,
just like we did with from event.
Look up here, we created a handler.
I'm just going to copy this code,
cuz it's gonna be faster.
Instead of DOM addEventListener,
it's object.observe,
pass in the object and then the not
necessarily grammatically correct
object.unobserve handler.
Notice a pattern?
It's always the same thing.
We hook up the thing that starts to
push stream that's coming to us.
And then inside of the dispose
method of the subscription,
we make sure that we never get
any more events ever again.
By unhooking, right?
So let's see if we can get this working.
This is going to be cool.
I'm kind of missing semi-colon somewhere.
That's fine.
>> Jafar: Term won't need this up here.
What if for example all we want to listen
for a click, and then open a form,
and then we want to listen to changes for
an object.
Until somebody close that for and then
maybe update the view because that's what
object observe is all about it's about
list allowing you to listen to models and
when they change updating views, right?
That's how you know the change
happens in the model so
you can synchronize those
changes with your view.
So when a form opens you can start
listening to changes to an object.
And then synchronizing
them with your view,
and when that form closes you can stop
listening to changes to that object, and
that's exactly the same thing we did
before with the auto-complete box.
When the search form opened we listened
for changes to the text box for all for
search results and as soon as a close
we stop listening for changes.
So I'm create an object
called person I'm give it
the name of Jim.
>> Jafar: And
we're going to listen for
all the observations on person and
since it's an observable nothing's going
to happen if I just create it, right?
We have to do what in order to start
getting the data out observable.
Yeah, forEach.
Absolutely.
And what actually comes
out is this changes array.
It's the array of all the changes
we made to the person.
So in case it wasn't clear before,
if I change one property on the object,
it's gonna eventually asynchronously
give me a change record.
But if I change 15 properties in the
object synchronously, one after the other.
It will then asynchronously give me
a change record detailing all 17 changing.
So that's more efficient that way,
to wait and
to see all the changes in a particular
turn and then onNext them and then deliver
them rather than just keep calling a call
back every single time a property changes.
That's how object.observe works.
So change is actually gonna be an array
of every change we make to this object.
So now that we're listening for
the changes, if we turn around and
go person.name = "Don";
person.age = 23; right?
We should get only one onNext of changes.
So let's check it out with our
little observable light library.
>> Jafar: How do I clear this console,
anybody know?
Usually, there's a little button.
All right, I don't see a run button,
either.
>> Jafar: Okay.
>> Jafar: Undefined is not a function it's
complaining about something.
>> Speaker 2: I think you can used
observable.observation-
>> Jafar: It's Thank you.
It's observable.observation,
not object.observations.
>> Speaker 2: And
maybe should we call it from
observation since we have from event?
Kind of that parallel?
>> Jafar: Yeah, sure.
Sure, why not?
>> Jafar: Sounds fair.
Now I'm gonna follow my own rules here and
do formatting,
as soon as we have more than one verb on
a noun, you put each on its own line.
And I actually already
showing the right result.
So if we clear it and I run it.
Look we got an object
with two records here.
We notice it says that age change,
is hard to see from the formatting but
it gave us a record inside that
array that says the age changed, and
it gave us a record inside that array
that said that the name changed.
So it's actually gone up right so now.
We can actually make a form like we can
actually make a text box where you can
enter in the name and a text box we could
enter in the age, and we could set that
object, and then we could sort of display
when a change was made to that object.
Or, for example,
we could make an asynchronous network
request to save the data, right?
Does that make sense?
So I've got a form with a text box for
the name, a text box for the age.
Every time we change the name, or the age
for that matter, we might want to kick
off an asynchronous request to sync
it up with the server and save it.
Does that make sense?
What would that look like I wonder.
Let's try it.
So I gonna open up HTML,
>> Jafar: Right,
now we're gonna make it a Save button.
>> Jafar: And we're gonna add a Name box.
>> Jafar: And an age box.
>> Jafar: And this is the type of thing.
Now you're seeing where
the benefit of observable is.
It's not so much benefit if you're just
listening to one data source, you're for
eaching over it and
you're doing something.
In practice, you're almost never
doing that in user interfaces.
When an event happens,
you're usually kicking off some
sort of network request, right?
Or doing something asynchronous.
And if you try to do that with call backs.
You're in callback hell.
Because now you've got to manage
errors yourself you have to
manage on subscriptions yourself.
But let's take this is a real example
right is actually a very feasible example.
Somebody editing a form and
then maybe we wait until after
a certain batch of changes is finished.
Not every single time a property
change for that matter.
And then we go off and
we make a network request to save it and
we're gonna I'm gonna
try that out right here.
So I'm gonna stop using our
observable light library because for
this example I wanna actually be able
to use the more advanced operators
that we haven't defined yet
like Cloncat all and merge all.
I'm just gonna open a new one and
we're gonna JS bin this.
So I'm actually gonna go Add Library,
add the RX library, and
now in JavaScript,
I'm just gonna copy over our definition
of object.observable.observations.
>> Jafar: But
now, I'm gonna make a couple changes.
Up until now, in our simple library, we
used a constructor to create observables.
But Rx comes with a helper function for
creating observables.
But lets us write a little
bit less boiler plate.
So, instead of going new observable like
we're doing here, I'll get rid of this
HTML, Rx comes with an observable.create
function and
it works pretty much identically.
Almost identically as passing in
a forEach for the constructor.
The only difference is instead of
returning this object with a dispose
method, which is a good thing
about it's always boiler plate
the only thing you're ever defining in
here is the definition of dispose itself.
It just allows you to just pass back,
the definition of the dispose function.
So if I was to write
this out the long way.
You'd see that this was just that if.
And under the hood, it wraps it
in a subscription object for you.
Does that makes sense?
So observable doc takes create the forEach
and wraps it in an observable.
And it takes whatever you
the dispose function you return.
And it wraps that in a subscription.
So that's all, that's the only difference.
It's just a little bit of a helper
function to let you write slightly
less code.
So this should work as is with now that
we have rx in here for observation
>> Jafar: So x is the changes array here
that occurred to the person.
And I'm going to go.
Person.age = 23 and
we should see something in the console
and expect a token because
I'm not on 6 to 5.
I'll switch over to use 6 to 5 and
it'll understand my error
function,
>> Jafar: And then we'll run and
it'll, observable not defined,
I just have to, now that I'm using RX,
we need to make sure to pull it
out of the RX namespace here.
So now that I do that?
Yes.
So we got our changes record right?
So we swapped over to using the real Rx.
But I can tell you definition
very very similar right?
Than what we saw earlier.
So now that we've got object.observations,
let's say we just wanna listen for
the next change to an object.
We don't wanna have to like
call unobserve, right?
We're just doing it inside
of our observe handler.
You know, that thing, If you want to
imagine the code you'd have to write.
If you wanted to list
the only one dom of that.
You'd have to, like inside of your
handler, call, remove event listener.
We don't have to do that.
So, let's just listen for
one observation, okay?
Using take(1) I'm going to add formatting
here.
>> Jafar: Okay,
I don't need the output window either.
>> Jafar: So this isn't going to be too
impressive looking, because we're
going to see the exact same thing.
The difference is under the hood, our
handler is no longer attached that object.
So if we make more changes to it,
they're just not going to show up.
Our callback is not going to get called.
So we've listen for
the next change to an object and never for
another change to an object.